#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
%% fonty
\usepackage{fontspec}
\setmainfont[Ligatures=TeX]{Stempel Garamond}
\defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text}
\usepackage{textcase}
\renewcommand{\textsc}[1]{\MakeTextUppercase{#1}} % příjmení autorů velkými písmeny

%% typografická zlepšení
\usepackage{csquotes}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package babel
\inputencoding utf8-plain
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Povinné zveřejňování informací (diplomová práce)"
\pdf_author "Jakub Michálek"
\pdf_subject "zákon o svobodném přístupu k informacím"
\pdf_keywords "informace, publikační povinnost"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language german
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\bullet 0 0 0 -1
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
pagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align left

\series bold
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To what extend do the authorities comply with the duty to publish information
 according to the Act No.
 106\SpecialChar \slash{}
1999 Coll., on the Free Access to Information? My assumption is that
 the authorities in the Czech Republic do not comply with the duty to publish
 information in many cases.
 I also ask a second question, whether it is possible to enforce the compliance
 with existing legal means.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I chose the topic of mandatory publishing of information because it is the
 easiest, most economic and efficient way how to make information available.
 It is also a hot topic, since new legislation is being prepared in this
 area.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The thesis is divided into introduction, first part devoted to the legal
 framework in force, second part devoted to the possibility of its enforcement,
 third part devoted to the possible alternative ways to regulate mandatory
 publishing, fourth part devoted to my own suggestions to improve the existing
 legal framework, and conclusion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the first part I address the foundations of the legal framework of informatio
n publishing in force, with the indispensable outreach to providing information
 in general.
 In greater detail I work on defining the subjects of duty to publish informatio
n and their superior administrative authorities, as well as treating the
 legal remedies in the case of administrative delays and failure to take
 action.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the second part I examine the extend to which the public authorities
 comply with the publication duty.
 I devise and use a simple procedure for evaluation.
 I compare the results with the publishing of information in the private
 sector and previous analyses.
 I outline several procedural ways which can achieve the publishing of informati
on by legal remedies, and I try some of them myself.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the third part I treat the possible alternatives to regulation, which
 go beyond the framework of the Act on the Free Access to Information.
 This covers mainly examples from the legal framework in force in different
 laws in the Czech Republic and the basic characteristic of the progressive
 elements in British and Slovak law.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the fourth part I formulate my own proposals to change the Act on the
 Free Access to Information and related acts regarding the publishing of
 information.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The conclusion summarizes the results of work: I designed a practical legal
 procedure to achieve publication of records.
 I also quantitatively validated the assumption that certain kinds of public
 authorities do not comply with the duty to publish information at all,
 which should be considered a regulatory failure.
 I sketched its possible legislative solutions.
 The secondary result is that I determined the superior administrative authority
 of several public institutions, for the purposes of information disclosure,
 which appears to be different from the existing judicial decisions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace bigskip
\end_inset

Key-words: Duty to publish records, transparency, superior administrative
 authority
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
